Here is the generated base documentation for the WhatsApp message automation code, need parse and edit: 
Documentation of the WhatsApp Message Automation Code Introduction This Python script is designed to automate the process of sending
WhatsApp messages using Excel files containing phone numbers and predefined messages. The script uses various Python libraries to automate
interaction with WhatsApp Web and simplify the sending of messages to multiple recipients. 
Initial Configuration At the beginning of the script, there is an initial configuration phase to ensure that the necessary directories exist: 
If the “excels,” “messages,” and “images” directories do not already exist, the script creates them using the os library. The paths to these
directories are then stored in global variables for later use: 
EXCEL_SHEET_PATH: Path to the directory containing Excel files. MESSAGE_PATH: Path to the directory containing predefined messages.
IMAGE_PATH: Path to the directory containing images. Main Functions The script includes two main functions that manage the program flow. 
send_to_clipboard(clip_type, filepath) Function This function takes two arguments as input: clip_type (the type of data to copy to the clipboard)
and filepath (the path of the file to copy). It is used to copy images to the Windows clipboard for later pasting. 
menu() Function The menu() function displays a main menu for the user, where they can choose from five options: 
“Upload Excel”: Opens the “excels” directory where the user can select an Excel file. “Draft a Message”: Allows the user to create a text message in
the “messages” directory using Notepad. “Send a Message”: Automates sending WhatsApp messages using Excel files and predefined messages.
The user can also choose to attach an image. “Upload Image”: Opens the “images” directory where the user can select an image to use. “Exit”:
Allows the user to exit the program. app_functions(function_select) Function The app_functions(function_select) function is responsible for
executing actions corresponding to the user’s selection. It takes the user’s function selection (function_select) as input and performs the following
actions based on the selection: 
Case “1” (Upload Excel): Opens the “excels” directory in the file explorer. Case “2” (Draft a Message): Allows the user to create a text message in the
“messages” directory using Notepad. Case “3” (Send a Message): Automates sending WhatsApp messages using Excel files and predefined
messages. The user can also choose to attach an image. Case “4” (Upload Image): Opens the “images” directory in the file explorer. Case “5” (Exit):
Quits the program. The “Case 3” section is the most complex, as it involves multiple steps: 
The user selects a predefined message. The user can choose to attach an image to the message. The user selects an Excel file containing phone
numbers and country codes. The script reads the Excel data and opens WhatsApp Web. The phone number is automatically filled in the WhatsApp
Web search bar. The message text and image (if selected) are copied to the Windows clipboard and pasted into WhatsApp. The message is sent.
Main Loop The script uses a while loop to keep the main menu running until the user chooses to exit (selection “5”). In each iteration of the loop,
the user is prompted to choose a menu option. 
Example 1: Download an Excel File 
Select the “Upload Excel” option from the main menu. You can now choose an Excel file from the “excels” directory using the file explorer. Code
snippet: 
python Edit 
Run Append Copy 
Case “1” (Upload Excel) 
os.startfile(EXCEL_SHEET_PATH) Example 2: Draft a Predefined Message 
Select the “Draft a Message” option from the main menu. A new Notepad document will open where you can compose your message. Save the
message with a name in the “messages” directory. Code snippet: 
python Edit 
Run Append Copy 
Case “2” (Draft a Message) 
messageName = input(“Please give your draft message a name. \n”) os.system(f"start notepad.exe ./messages/{messageName}“) Example 3: Send
WhatsApp Messages 
Select the “Send a Message” option from the main menu. You will be guided to choose a predefined message, attach an image if desired, select an
Excel file, and choose the appropriate columns for phone numbers and country codes. Code snippet (part of “Case 3”): 
python Edit 
Run Append Copy 
Choosing message to sendfor index, message in enumerate(os.listdir(MESSAGE_PATH)): print(index+1, message) message_select = input(“Please choose the message you
would like to send \n”) 
Reading message text 
with open(f"{MESSAGE_PATH}/{os.listdir(MESSAGE_PATH)[int(message_select)-1]}“) as file: selected_text = file.read() 
Attaching image option 
image_option = input(“Would you like to attach an image to your message? Y or N \n”) if image_option == ‘Y’: for index, image in
enumerate(os.listdir(IMAGE_PATH)): print(index+1, image) image_select = input(“Please select the image to be attached. \n”) 
Excel interaction 
for index, excel in enumerate(os.listdir(EXCEL_SHEET_PATH)): print(index+1, excel) excel_select = input(“Please choose the Excel file to use \n”) 
... (continued) 
Example 4: Quit the Program 
Select the “Exit” option from the main menu to exit the program. Code snippet: 
python Edit 
Run Append Copy 
Case “5” (Exit) 
quit() These examples demonstrate how to use various features of the code to download an Excel file, draft a message, send WhatsApp messages,
and exit 
the program. You can further customize each step based on your specific needs. 
Conclusion This script offers advanced automation for sending WhatsApp messages using Excel files for phone numbers, predefined messages
for message content, and optional images for attachments. It is designed to simplify the process of sending messages in bulk while providing a
user-friendly text-based interface. 
To use this script successfully, make sure you have properly set up the “excels,” “messages,” and “images” directories with the appropriate files.
Also, ensure that you have the required Python libraries installed on your system for execution
